README.md, before:

# Dax Agent

This repository defines **Dax**, a behavioral configuration for software implementation agents.

Dax is not a framework.
Dax is not a chatbot.
Dax does not implement software itself.

Dax is a **workflow-shaping layer** that biases an implementation agent toward production-grade behavior by enforcing explicit structure, checkpoints, and review cycles.

This README is for humans.
It explains what Dax is, what it is not, and how to start a session.
You do **not** need to understand the internal documents to use Dax.

---

## What Dax Is (v0)

Dax v0 is a **behavioral influencer**, not a full orchestrator.

It works by:
- Requiring a clear Product Requirements Description (PRD.md) and ranked Epic list (EPICS.md) as input
- Injecting explicit rules and expectations into an implementation agent
- Enforcing decomposition, checkpoints, and review cycles
- Reducing hallucination, narrative progress, and premature completion claims

Dax does **not** own process integrity yet.
The implementation agent still executes the work.
Dax shapes *how* that work is approached and reported.

**Dax cannot prevent an implementation agent from proceeding incorrectly.** It can only warn when PRD and Epics are missing or underspecified. If inputs are incomplete, Dax surfaces that risk and proceeds in reporting mode only.

---

## What Dax Is Not

- Not a replacement for engineers
- Not a project management tool
- Not an autonomous system
- Not a decision-maker with its own agenda
- **Not a blocker** – Dax cannot and does not prevent implementation agents from executing

Dax does not refuse to work.
If something is unclear, Dax surfaces options, tradeoffs, and unknowns instead of inventing assumptions.

**Dax does not implement software.** Dax shapes how implementation agents approach the work and report on it.

---

## Core Behaviors Enforced by Dax

When applied correctly, Dax biases the agent toward:

- Explicit decomposition of work
- Clear acceptance criteria
- Incremental, demoable progress
- Regression awareness
- Stakeholder-facing reporting
- Controlled sprint boundaries

These behaviors are enforced **through convention and repetition**, not hard technical guarantees.

---

## Mandatory Bootstrap Rule

Dax has **undefined behavior** unless bootstrapped correctly.

**Every session MUST start with bootstrap.**

Bootstrap is the entry point.
If bootstrap is skipped, Dax is not active.

Before bootstrap, you must create:
- **PRD.md** – Product Requirements Description (problem, constraints, success criteria)
- **EPICS.md** – Ranked list of 3+ work units

Bootstrap will warn if either is missing or underspecified.

---

## How to Start (Human Instructions)

1. Clone this repository.
2. Run the bootstrap script:
   ```bash
   bash agent/bootstrap.sh

Commit message:

feat: implement Dax opening message as single source of truth
The Dax opening message is now THE definitive contract between Dax and users.
All implementation agents configured with Dax MUST output this exact message first,
before any other interaction or workflow steps.

Key changes:

- agent/bootstrap.sh: Replaced previous greeting with exact opening message
  * Message is output verbatim, first, before any other user-visible text
  * Development Start Gateway runs silently in background
  * Links in message point to real example files

- install.sh: Simplified to defer all explanation to opening message
  * Removed pre-emptive PRD/EPICS requirements from startup output
  * Installation completion message directs user to run bootstrap

- docs/install/INSTALL.md: Restructured around opening message
  * No longer repeats requirements; defers to opening message
  * Simplified to install → bootstrap → read message → provide inputs

- README.md: Simplified and aligned with opening message
  * Quick start: run bootstrap to see the opening message
  * Removed redundant explanations that contradict the message

- docs/gateways/DEVELOPMENT_START_GATEWAY.md: Aligned with message's role
  * Clarified gateway is warn-only, never blocks
  * Consistent with message's statement: 'Dax cannot prevent agents from hallucinating'

- test_opening_message.sh: Verification script
  * Simple repeatable test: verifies first line of bootstrap output

All user-facing prompts now consistently:
- Defer detailed explanation to the opening message
- Never claim Dax can block or hard-stop implementation agents
- Use consistent terminology (PRD.md, EPICS.md, warn-only, shape/not implement)

Verified: Opening message is output first when bootstrap is run.

README.md, after:

# Dax Agent

This repository defines **Dax**, a workflow framework for production-grade software work.

Dax does not implement software. Dax does not replace the implementation agent. Dax shapes how work is defined, executed, verified, and reviewed.

This README is for humans understanding what Dax does and how to start.

**When you're ready to begin, run:** `agent/bootstrap.sh`

The bootstrap will print the full opening message explaining what Dax needs and what it will do.

---

## Quick Start

1. Clone this repository or run the installer from another repo.
2. Prepare two documents in your repo root:
   - **PRD.md** – Product Requirements Description
   - **EPICS.md** – Ranked list of epics (3+)
3. Run `./agent/bootstrap.sh` and read the opening message.
4. Provide the PRD and EPICS.md when prompted.

---

## What Dax Does

Dax v0 is a **behavioral framework** for implementation agents.

It works by:
- Requiring clear inputs: a Product Requirements Description and ranked Epic list
- Injecting explicit rules and expectations into an implementation agent
- Enforcing decomposition, checkpoints, review cycles, and explicit sprint artifacts
- Surfacing uncertainty and drift instead of hiding them

Dax does **not** own process integrity yet. The implementation agent executes the work. Dax shapes *how* that work is approached and reported.

**Dax cannot prevent an implementation agent from hallucinating or proceeding incorrectly.** It can only warn when required inputs are missing and ensure that work is verified and reviewed before progress continues.

---

## What Dax Is Not

- Not a replacement for engineers
- Not a project management tool
- Not an autonomous system
- Not a decision-maker with its own agenda
- **Not a blocker** – Dax cannot and does not prevent implementation agents from executing

Dax does not refuse to work.
If something is unclear, Dax surfaces options, tradeoffs, and unknowns instead of inventing assumptions.

**Dax does not implement software.** Dax shapes how implementation agents approach the work and report on it.

---

## Core Behaviors Enforced by Dax

When applied correctly, Dax biases the agent toward:

- Explicit decomposition of work
- Clear acceptance criteria
- Incremental, demoable progress
- Regression awareness
- Stakeholder-facing reporting
- Controlled sprint boundaries

These behaviors are enforced **through convention and repetition**, not hard technical guarantees.

---

## Mandatory Bootstrap Rule

Dax has **undefined behavior** unless bootstrapped correctly.

**Every session MUST start with bootstrap.**

Bootstrap is the entry point.
If bootstrap is skipped, Dax is not active.

Before bootstrap, you must create:
- **PRD.md** – Product Requirements Description (problem, constraints, success criteria)
- **EPICS.md** – Ranked list of 3+ work units

Bootstrap will warn if either is missing or underspecified.

---

## How to Start (Human Instructions)

1. Clone this repository.
2. Run the bootstrap script:
   ```bash
   bash agent/bootstrap.sh
