docs/install/INSTALL.md, before:

## Dax v0.1 Installation

install.sh downloads the Dax runtime files listed in dax/runtime/RUNTIME_LOCKFILE.json into a hidden `.dax/` folder in your target repository, sets executable bits on the shipped scripts, and refuses to run inside the dax-agent source tree. It is POSIX sh, non-interactive, and defaults to the `main` reference unless `DAX_REF` is provided.

**Before you begin**: Create `PRD.md` and `EPICS.md` in your repo root. The Development Start Gateway will warn if they are missing or underspecified. See [docs/gateways/DEVELOPMENT_START_GATEWAY.md](../gateways/DEVELOPMENT_START_GATEWAY.md) and [docs/examples/](../examples/) for templates and examples.

### Quick install (curl | sh)
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hilbertp/dax-agent/main/install.sh | sh
```

### Pinned install (recommended)
```bash
DAX_REF=<commit-or-tag> curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hilbertp/dax-agent/main/install.sh | sh
```

### Local run
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hilbertp/dax-agent/main/install.sh -o install.sh
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh /path/to/target
```

### Verify
```bash
.dax/agent/bootstrap.sh
```

The Development Start Gateway is **warn-only**: if PRD.md or EPICS.md are missing, you will see a warning but installation will not fail. However, implementation agents (like ii-agent) operating without a complete PRD and epic list may hallucinate scope and miss constraints.

Commit message:

chore: align user-facing prompts with PRD start gateway
Unified messaging across all entry points to reinforce the contract:
- PRD.md and EPICS.md are required inputs for reliable workflow shaping
- Missing or underspecified inputs trigger warnings, not hard stops
- Dax shapes workflow and review, not implementation
- Implementation agents may hallucinate scope and miss constraints
- Dax cannot prevent agents from proceeding incorrectly

Changes:
- agent/bootstrap.sh: Updated greeting to explain role (shapes, not implements)
  and explicitly list required inputs (PRD.md, EPICS.md)
- install.sh: Added PRD/EPICS requirement note at startup
  and revised completion message to direct users to create PRD and EPICS
- docs/install/INSTALL.md: Restructured with "Required Inputs" section,
  added "Important Limitations" explaining hallucination risk and agent autonomy
- README.md: Clarified that PRD.md and EPICS.md must be created before bootstrap,
  updated "What Dax Is Not" to explicitly state Dax is not a blocker,
  updated "What Dax Is" to emphasize PRD/EPICS as input requirement

docs/install/INSTALL.md, after:

## Dax v0.1 Installation

install.sh downloads the Dax runtime files into a hidden `.dax/` folder in your target repository. It is POSIX sh, non-interactive, and defaults to the `main` reference unless `DAX_REF` is provided.

### Required Inputs

Dax relies on two documents to shape workflow reliably:

1. **PRD.md** – Product Requirements Description
   - Problem statement: what are you solving?
   - Constraints: timeline, tech stack, compliance, budget
   - Success criteria: how do you know you succeeded?

2. **EPICS.md** – Ranked Epic List
   - 3+ numbered epics
   - Prioritized by dependency or business value
   - Brief description for each

See [docs/examples/PRD_EXAMPLE.md](../examples/PRD_EXAMPLE.md) and [docs/examples/EPIC_LIST_EXAMPLE.md](../examples/EPIC_LIST_EXAMPLE.md) for realistic examples.

**The Development Start Gateway will warn if PRD.md or EPICS.md are missing or underspecified.** This is a warn-only gate–it does not block installation. However, implementation agents operating without clear inputs may hallucinate requirements and introduce unexpected scope.

### Quick install (curl | sh)
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hilbertp/dax-agent/main/install.sh | sh
```

### Pinned install (recommended)
```bash
DAX_REF=<commit-or-tag> curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hilbertp/dax-agent/main/install.sh | sh
```

### Local run
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hilbertp/dax-agent/main/install.sh -o install.sh
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh /path/to/target
```

### Verify
```bash
.dax/agent/bootstrap.sh
```

### Important Limitations

**Dax cannot prevent implementation agents from proceeding incorrectly.**

Dax shapes workflow and review–it does not implement. When bootstrap runs, it checks for PRD.md and EPICS.md and warns if they are missing or underspecified. But implementation agents (like ii-agent, code generators, or LLMs) often operate independently. They may:

- Generate code without validating it against your PRD
- Introduce scope not in your epic list
- Misinterpret constraints or success criteria
- Produce work that does not align with your actual goals

A **complete, clear PRD and ranked epic list is your primary mechanism for steering the work.** Dax surfaces the risk; you must ensure your planning documents are specific and comprehensive.
